Meredith is sleeping in the shower with a toothbrush. She awakens as her arm slips from her knee and continues her shower.

Meredith walks into the nursing home her mother lives at and discusses having her mother sign everything over to her while she is lucid. She’s distractedly watching her mother through the glass and explains that she has not slept in 48 hours, and she’s getting her first shot at heart surgery this morning, she’s missing rounds, and asks if they are sure there is no one else to handle this instead. The nursing home representative explains they are talking about her mother’s estate, finances, medical care and asks if Meredith really wants to leave her mother’s life in someone else’s hands.

In the OR, Burke is placing a stitch as Meredith begins to nod off while holding the heart in her hands. Burke notices her jerk awake and questions her about it. Meredith apologizes and says the heart slipped, but he’s finished, she can release Mrs. Patterson’s heart now.

As they prepare to take the patient off by-pass, George and Cristina watch from the gallery. George is jealous that Meredith got to hold a heart. Cristina says a monkey could hold a heart, but George think she only feels that way because she’s mad Burke didn’t ask her to assist. Izzie comes in looking for George, telling him she needs more ice and chips. He’s surprised and asks how many people she invited. Cristina reiterates the invite list was ‘jocks only’ meaning only surgery, trauma, and plastics. Izzie tells them she invited some people from peds as well, who Cristina calls preschoolers. Cristina thinks shrinks are next, and when Izzie turns away, she realizes she already did and says the party is already DOA. George reminds Izzie that Meredith thinks this is a small, meet-your-boyfriend, cocktail thing, and asks if she cleared it with her first. Izzie says she didn’t but promises she will. Cristina wonders why Izzie is wasting the one weekend her boyfriend is in town on a party and assumes it’s because he’s bad in bed. Izzie denies that and says she just wants him to meet her friends. Cristina doubts that but is paged away. Alex comes in asking about the party at Meredith’s house and takes Cristina’s seat. Cristina, George and Izzie all deny there’s a party, as Alex watches the surgery below.

In the OR, an alarm is going off, but they aren’t sure what the problem is. The anesthesiologist tells Burke the patient’s temperature is rising as they continue to massage the heart. Burke says she should be doing that on her own by now when the patient flatlines. The continue compressions as Burke calls for paddles and shocks her twice before getting a rhythm. Burke compliments the team and leaves to scrub out. As Meredith turn away from the table, she notices her fingernail has punctured her glove and worries she may have done something.

Derek is eating as he approaches Meredith and asks how the surgery went. She is less enthusiastic as George joins them. Derek notices her attitude, but when the elevator arrives, George and Meredith get on leaving Derek behind. Meredith tells George that she thinks she may have done something to the heart while she was holding it. She nodded off a little and thinks she may have squeezed it. George dismisses this and says the heart is a tough muscle, but Meredith tells him her fingernail popped a glove. She asks him what if she punctured the patient’s heart. He tells her if she had punctured it, they would have known when they tried to reperfused, but they got her heart started again so the patient is okay. Meredith wonders if she should tell Burke. George asks her what there is to tell, that nothing happened, and the woman is okay. They continue to tell one another the patient is fine.

Richard, Bailey and George are reviewing chest films for Mrs. Drake. Bailey asks George what he sees. He points out hyperinflated lungs, cloudy with bullae and seriously diminished capacity and says the patient must be having trouble breathing. Bailey asks what his course of action would be and he tells her he would do a bullectomy procedure to reduce the pressure. Richard has the chart and says they operated on this patient in 1999, but even though she has been through this procedure before, George still needs to walk her through it and resist the anti-smoking lectures, Mrs. Drake feels bad enough already. As he leaves, George asks Bailey if she thinks they put this lung scan on packs of cigarettes if people would stop smoking.

Derek and Alex are in with a patient who complains of back pain. Alex asks how long he’s been experiencing pain. He explains it’s chronic, meaning it always hurts. Alex says he know what chronic means and asks him to be more specific about the kind of pain he’s experiencing. He says it’s like a thousand samurai warriors stabbing swords into his spine and explains he’s allergic to aspirin and most NSAIDs. Alex suggests morphine, but the patient says the only things that works is Demerol of dilaudid. Derek notices track marks on the man’s arm. They leave the room and Alex believes the patient is just drug seeking, he has exaggerated and been overly specific in describing the pain and calls him a junkie. Derek asks what he would do. Alex wants to check the database for his history, refer him to a program, and discharge. Derek says he can do that, after he gives the patient something. Alex is annoyed and says that’s exactly what the patient wants. Derek tells him they still have to treat the pain as if it were real, that the first rule of pain management is to always err on the side of caution. He tells Alex to start a central line and the patient’s veins are shot as he is paged away.

Mrs. Drake tells George that her last surgery was supposed to help but says it never felt right. George says it probably would have been a good idea to quit smoking. She snaps back that she had a 4-pack-a-day habit, and it was hell, but she did quit and it didn’t do any damn good. This surprises George as he tells her based on her scans, they assumed she was still smoking. She affirms that she quit cold-turkey 5 years ago as they start to move and prep her for surgery. She tells him she had to quit her job at the restaurant, that even sitting hurt, but no one believed her. He tells her he saw the films; it is definitely not all in her head. She urges him to come closer and tells him he’s too young to be a doctor, but he says he’s older than he looks. She asks if he thinks the procedure is going to work this time, and he replies that it’s her best option. She says she likes a straight shooter.

Meredith watches from afar as Nurse Tyler gets Mrs. Patterson comfortable in the hospital bed. She comes over and greets the patient’s husband and gets updated on her status. She confirms that her levels are fine and explains that heart surgery takes a lot out of a patient. They are monitoring her carefully, and she should be fine.

Izzie draws the curtain as she approaches Mr. Sterman and asks how he’s feeling today. He says he’s pretty okay but doesn’t think he wants to have a bowel obstruction again. She jokes that they get people in all the time requesting them and asks if he’s keeping down the clear fluids and asks if he’s used the bathroom yet. He’s not sure, but she says he would probably know and asks if he has passed gas instead. He says yes, but she knows he’s lying. He apologizes for lying and tells her he went to medical school but dropped out his last year of clinical training. Just too many hours and he was getting into a divorce. He does research now, has a life and a family. He apologizes and says he meant no offense, but Izzie says it’s fine. She one of those people who believe you can have both a successful career and a family. He’s not so sure as a doctors first responsibility will always be their patient.

As Izzie exits Mr. Sterman’s room, Burke comes up to Cristina at the nurse’s station and slides a coffee to her. She looks up at him as he’s sipping his own, clearly confused. He says it’s just coffee. Cristina awkwardly accepts the coffee as they go their separate ways. When she turns the corner, Burke peers back watching her with a smile.

Meredith is washing her face in the locker room.

Richard is performing a ‘spaghetti procedure’ on Mrs. Drake as Bailey explains to George what it is. They notice something unusual in the field, which surprises Bailey. Richard says they need to convert to an open procedure and removed the scopes. Richard makes the incision as Bailey assists. Richard then pulls a towel from inside Mrs. Drake. George wonders where it came from, Richard says his best guess is from her surgery 5 years ago. Bailey says something careless this way comes and continues to assist.

Cristina has joined Richard, Bailey and George outside the OR. She’s surprised they pulled a towel from a patient as George explains that Mrs. Drake complained of pressure on her chest, and no one took her seriously. Richard reiterates it’s not good for the patient, not good for the hospital, just not good as he leaves. Bailey asks Cristina to hit the files, find everything she can about the initial operation including who was in the room and who was responsible for closing. She tells George to stay with Mrs. Drake, who seems to like him. George starts to ask how long he will need to wait, as his shift technically ends at 6pm. Bailey knows about the party and asks if she’s invited, to which George agrees that she is, of course. Once Bailey is gone, Cristina stares at George irritated, but he wonders what he was supposed to say.

Izzie is on the phone ordering assorted cases of beer for the party when Alex comes up and requests local microbrews and bar nuts. She tells him she’s ordering office supplies but makes the request anyway and moves the delivery from 5 to 7. Mr. Sterman passes her in the hall and asks if he poops, will she invite him to her party.

Derek is walking by when he hears his pain patient complaining and struggling with a nurse. Mr, Frost asks where he has been, and Derek assures him they will help as he goes to find Alex.

Derek berates Alex saying when he tells him to start a central line, he’s to do so without judgement or question. Alex tells him the patient have been in 7 hospitals in the last 4 months, he’s an addict. Derek says the patient has a 3-lumbar fusion, but Alex still only sees a junkie. Derek says yes, he may be an addict, but his pain is real and tells Alex to drop the attitude, get down there and start the central line.

George is with Mrs. Drake who says a handsome, older, male surgeon told her she had a towel inside her. George tells her that’s Dr. Webber, their chief. She understands the towel was left inside after her last surgery and asks who would do that, it doesn’t seem right. George agrees.

Cristina enters an office and starts going through files looking for information on Mrs. Drake’s initial surgery. She finally finds a post-op report listing Dr. John Davies as the surgeon, and Dr. Preston Burke as the surgical fellow on the case. She brings the information to Bailey and asks what happens now. Bailey tells her to keep it to herself while they work it out.

Meredith is charting at the nurse’s station when Derek comes over. He noticed something seemed off and asks if she’s okay. She assures him she’s just tired from a long procedure. He asks her out for dinner tonight, but she can’t. He tells her to forget about the party, which surprises her since she didn’t tell him about it. He sarcastically thanks her for not inviting him saying that felt good and tells her to think about dinner as he leaves and she is paged.

Meredith arrives at Mrs. Patterson’s bed where Nurse Tyler tells her there was swelling over her sternum and then blood started gushing. He’s already paged Burke. Mr. Patterson wants to know if his wife is dying. Meredith asks for someone to get Mr. Patterson out of there and hold pressure over the wound. When Burke arrives, he tells Tyler to call for an OR and asks Meredith for an update. She says the patient has received medication, with no allergic, anaphylactic or histamine responses, and updated him on her labs. Burke isn’t sure what went wrong and tells the team to move. Meredith hesitates, but then confesses that she popped a glove in the OR. Mr. Patterson has heard all of this and watches as they move his wife to surgery.

In the OR, Burke berates Meredith for not telling him sooner. She had every opportunity to speak up before he closed and then she went and confessed in front of the husband. He says she doesn’t know if this was her fault, she continues to apologize. He then finds the problem and beckons her to the table. There is a wall rupture, but it’s a lot larger than a fingernail. He tells her that Mrs. Patterson’s ventricular walls are weak as Richard comes in from the scrub room. He tells them he just spoke with Mr. Patterson and wants copies of his wife’s chart in his office by 5pm. He says Burke and Meredith will meet with legal tomorrow and they better be able to explain what happened here. As he leaves, he rants about people poking holes in hearts and leaving towels behind. Burke tells Meredith he’s going to go back and talk with Mr. Patterson, and tells her to review the history and apologize profusely. Her ass is on the line here.

Meredith is reviewing the chart with Cristina and George. She told them she has to go before the chief tomorrow morning, that she could be kicked out of the program. George doesn’t think she will be kicked out and Cristina thinks the husband will sue. She wonders why Meredith even told Burke. George tells her he told Meredith not to. Meredith’s phone rings and she says she has to take it, and sarcastically thanks them for their comfort. Izzie arrives with coffee, a banana, and chips saying the beer is coming at 7pm and some of the floor nurses are bring wine. Cristina is annoyed she invited nurses and George asks her again if she’s cleared it with Meredith. Izzie says a few more people won’t make a difference, a party is a party. Cristina says yeah, and the bigger the party, the less time for the bad sex with her hockey player. Izzie asks her to stop, saying she and Hank have great sex, all the time and they will probably have sex after or maybe even during the party. Cristina laughs, and George again reminds her to clear it with Meredith. Izzie says Hank just needs to know that doctors can have fun, that they aren’t all workaholics with god complexes. Cristina say’s that’s exactly what they are annoying Izzie as George plays with an inflated glove.

Meredith is on the phone confirming the notary can be there at 6:30, and that the home’s doctor will be there to attest to her mother’s mental competency as well. She asks if there is anything else she needs to bring besides her license and checkbook. She confirms 6:30 again and ends the call as Derek joins her. He heard. She thinks he’s talking about her phone call and tries to cover, but he’s referring to the heart thing and asks if she wants to talk about it. She says they are adults, but wonders when that happened and how to make it stop as she leaves.

Cristina returns a patient chart to the rack as Burke is charting at the nurse’s station. They greet one another awkwardly, and she mentioned the complication of the heart graft. He says it was nothing he couldn’t handle. She walks away, but has her doubts.

Mr. Patterson is on the phone outside the hospital but quickly ends the call as Meredith comes over. He tells her that was his lawyer, who advised him not to talk with her. Meredith understands that he's frustrated and angry, and asks for information about his wife. She tells him the walls of her heart are abnormally thin, which angers him further. He tells her not to blame this on his wife, he heard from her very mouth what happened. He says she was in the best shape of her life, and tells her to ask his wife's cardiologist. She had just lost 100lbs and tells her to not dare hang this on her. Meredith tries again, but he says he's done talking and leaves.

Alex and Derek are in Jerry Frost's room and reveal to him that they've discovered he's there just to beg for drugs due to his addiction, and they tell him to go home and get help. Meanwhile, Izzie, who was in Mr. Sterman's room, is asked by Derek to discharge the drug-addicted patient.

In the hallway, Izzie and George organize getting beers for the party, and Izzie asks George to get them. Meanwhile, Alex overhears and provocatively tells Izzie to ask her boyfriend. Izzie responds irritably that she didn't invite Alex because he's unpleasant. Alex says he wouldn't have come anyway. George is worried that Meredith doesn't know how many people will be crowding her house. Izzie says she wants to tell her, but Cristina warns her that Meredith has already left. George asks Izzie to tell Meredith that he has nothing to do with the party.

Meredith arrives at the notary, but her mother, in the throes of an Alzheimer's crisis, refuses to sign the documents for the house. Meredith begs her to concentrate and sign the papers. The notary's secretary tells her that it won't be possible to finalize the deal that day and asks Meredith to return the next day when her mother is lucid. Meredith gets impatient and leaves angrily.

Cristina sees Bailey and Burke talking and realizes that Bailey is giving Burke the files related to the surgery in which he was involved, having left a sponge inside Mrs. Drake's body. Burke examines the files, worried.

Meredith arrives home and discovers a party has been organized at her place. At the party, Cristina asks Bailey if there are any updates on Mrs. Drake's sponge case. Bailey tells her not to get involved.

In the hospital, Izzie and Alex, along with a nurse, are escorting Jerry Frost, who reacts violently. Some nurses try to restrain him, but he gets up, runs away, falls, hits his head, and passes out.

Derek observes the CT scan results of Jerry Frost's head. He asks Izzie and Alex what they see in the images. They notice a subdural hemorrhage, and Derek says they need to operate immediately. Derek asks if Izzie was supposed to leave or if she wanted to stay for the surgery. Izzie says she wants to stay.

At the party, Meredith sees George and asks him where Izzie is. She scolds George because the party was supposed to be a small gathering among friends to meet her boyfriend. Meredith says she can't handle all of this, and George offers to kick everyone out. Meanwhile, a drunk Cristina greets Meredith. Meredith starts drinking and dancing with Cristina, and they invite George to join them.

Derek, Izzie, and Alex are operating on Jerry. Alex reveals that his father was also addicted to heroin.

At the party, Cristina, Meredith, and Cristina continue to play while drunk. Hank arrives and asks if Izzie Stevens is there. Cristina warns him that Izzie isn't there and won't be back soon. Hank says he didn't know there would be such a big party for him. Hank keeps asking when Izzie will arrive.

After the surgery, Derek asks Izzie and Alex to finish taking care of the patient. Alex says he'll take care of it and tells Izzie that she can go to her boyfriend and that he'll handle everything. She thanks him, visibly troubled.

Hank is outside the hospital waiting for Izzie. They greet each other with a kiss, and she starts telling him about the surgery. He says he didn't want such a big party and isn't interested in meeting the people she works with. She reminds him that when she was a model, he didn't mind meeting her colleagues. He says that at least back then, she attended her parties. Izzie emphasizes that her life has changed and that her patients now come first. They begin arguing about the fact that he traveled a long way for her, but she prioritized her work. Izzie asks Hank to come to the party, but he says no and leaves.

Meredith is outside the house, drunk, and sees Derek waiting for her, leaning against a car. They start flirting, talking about tequila. They kiss and end up having sex in the car. Miranda Bailey sees them from outside the car.

The next morning, the house is a mess. George brings a cup to Meredith, who tells him she has to meet with the chief in an hour. Izzie walks in and asks what happened with all the mess. Meredith says dejectedly, joking, that she shouldn't even talk to her anymore, but what's the big deal, she didn't have anything else to do. George reminds Meredith, sarcastically, that she was supposed to prepare for the meeting that could ruin her. They start talking about Mrs. Patterson. Meredith says the heart should never have torn, that the lady lost 50 pounds and was in great shape. Izzie wonders if, after losing 50 pounds in a year, the muscle mass might have suffered.

Meredith is at the meeting, and in the meantime, George, Izzie, and Cristina are betting on the outcome of the discussion. While talking with Webber, Meredith takes responsibility for what happened the previous day but also says that the patient's condition, who still weighs 100 pounds, is a determining factor, especially since her muscle mass (including heart muscle) has significantly reduced due to the extreme weight loss. For Dr. Webber, this would explain the tearing of the heart following a minor impact. However, the hospital lawyer emphasizes that the minor impact was not promptly reported by Meredith, exposing the hospital to significant liability. Dr. Burke defends Meredith and shares his own story with patient Mrs. Drake, recalling how, five years earlier, as a resident, he didn’t report leaving a sponge inside the patient because he was afraid of facing a meeting where a legal loophole could have ended his career. Burke says that even great doctors make mistakes and should be free to speak up without fearing repercussions.

Meredith tells her colleagues that she wasn't fired and will be under observation for a month. Miranda tells Cristina that Burke had already decided to reveal the secret about Mrs. Drake's case; he was just waiting for the right moment to do it since "information is power."

Ellis Grey finally signs the documents in front of Meredith. Alex arranges for Jerry (in bed after the surgery) to meet with a psychologist for addiction recovery. Dr. Burke apologizes to Mrs. Drake. Miranda gives Derek a dirty look. Mr. Sterman tells Izzie that he has finally had a bowel movement, and she is happy. Alex joins Izzie and makes a joke. Cristina and Burke have sex in the locker room.

Meredith, George, Izzie, and Cristina clean the house after the party. 