Meredith is in bed at 4:37am while it is raining.
Izzie stands next to Meredith's bed, holding coffee.
Izzie mentions that George's bedroom is bigger than hers.
Meredith gets out of bed but trips and falls on her face.
She limps away from the room.
Izzie follows Meredith and says she needs more space because she has more clothes.
George interrupts and says he got his room first, but Izzie insists that Meredith should decide.
George tells Izzie that his room is only two inches bigger, but Izzie points out that he has a bigger closet.
George suggests Izzie put her clothes somewhere else, but Izzie says all the spaces are filled with boxes belonging to Meredith's mother.
Izzie and George ask Meredith if they can put the boxes in storage or unpack some items like lamps, paintings, or pillows to make the house feel more comfortable.
Izzie and George quickly ask if they can watch the tapes of surgical procedures from one of the boxes.
Meredith responds by slamming a door in their faces.
A moment later, Meredith opens the door, takes Izzie's coffee, and shuts the door again.
Meredith sits against the other side of the door, holding the coffee.
Bailey stands on a street corner and looks confused.
Shepherd joins Bailey and greets her.
Bailey tells Shepherd to be quiet because something important is supposed to happen today, but she cannot remember what it is.
Derek walks forward to cross the road.
Bailey gasps and grabs Derek as several bike riders speed past and two of them crash.
At the hospital, Bailey complains to the interns about the bike riders, saying they are just fools killing themselves.
Alex asks George if Bailey is off her medication.
George is surprised that Alex has never heard of the race.
Webber, Burke, and Shepherd stand in front of the O.R.
schedule board.
They notice the schedule is well done and think they might get an early night.
Bailey tells them that "Dead baby bike race day" started 20 minutes ago.
George and Meredith explain that every year a bar holds an illegal underground bike race.
Bailey complains again about bike messengers racing against traffic for free tequila shots.
Bailey says she needs someone to go up to the OR floor because the Chief needs help.
Everyone except Meredith raises their hand, and Bailey chooses George.
Bailey warns the others not to mingle with the E.R.
interns, who she says are inexperienced.
She tells them to sew quickly, discharge patients quickly, and take bodies to the OR immediately.
Bailey warns them not to fight over patients.
The interns run and push for position and see many injured bike riders.
Izzie and Cristina rush to grab a patient.
Meredith sees a man with bicycle spokes in his side.
Alex and Meredith both run to help him.
Behind a curtain, Alex and Meredith argue about who will take the patient.
The patient, named Viper, pulls back the curtain and asks them to remove the spokes so he can continue his race.
Meredith tells Alex that they need to run some tests first.
Alex ignores her and removes the patient, saying the wound is superficial and does not need surgery.
Alex leaves Meredith to stitch up the wound.
Cristina, Izzie, and Derek stand by a patient.
Cristina explains to Derek that the patient is an unidentified man in his mid-thirties.
He was a pedestrian hit by a car that swerved to avoid a bike.
Cristina says his Glasgow Coma Scale score is 3, his pupils are fixed and dilated, and he was given atropine because his pulse was in the forties.
Cristina continues to assess the patient.
Burke comments that the bike race has claimed its first victim.
Izzie asks Derek if the patient will go to the operating room.
Derek tells her to do confirmatory tests.
He says if the patient does not respond in six hours, they should declare him brain dead.
Webber is in surgery.
George comes in and asks if he should scrub in.
Webber tells George not to scrub in because he will be in the operating room all day.
Webber instructs George to monitor his pre-op and post-op patients.
Webber tells George to pay special attention to a friend in room 4451 named Lloyd Mackie.
Lloyd Mackie is in his hospital bed.
He lights a cigarette.
George tells him to put it out and warns him that smoking is dangerous.
Lloyd replies that liver cancer will kill him and the cigarettes only make it happen faster.
George insists there is hope because Lloyd is at the top of the donor list.
Lloyd says he has been at the top of the list for eight months.
Izzie and Cristina are with their patient.
Izzie worries that the patient will not respond and says they only have five hours left.
Cristina tells her that if the patient does not respond to the tests, he is already dead.
Cristina says she wants the patient to die soon so she can get another case.
Izzie is shocked and says it is a waste of the patient’s life.
Cristina replies that it is also a waste of good organs.
Izzie realizes Cristina wants the organs for transplant.
Meredith is sewing up Viper.
While she works, Viper flirts with her.
Meredith ignores him and asks him to let her do some tests, promising he could leave in an hour.
Viper refuses because he wants to finish the race.
Meredith asks him to sign an AMA form before he leaves.
Viper signs the form, gets up, and kisses Meredith before leaving.
Meredith shakes her head and starts to strip the bed.
She sees Derek standing outside.
Derek comes in.
Meredith asks if he is jealous.
Derek says he is not, but mentions he almost died today and asks how she would feel if she never got to go out with him.
Meredith tells him to get over himself and asks if he just likes the chase.
Derek is surprised.
Meredith says it is just a game for him and storms out angrily.
Bailey is performing surgery.
Izzie and Cristina enter the room.
They ask Bailey if they can harvest organs from their patient.
Bailey is surprised.
She tells them they need to identify the patient, contact his family, and get consent forms.
Izzie and Cristina leave quickly to do this.
Alex goes to a desk where George is sitting.
George tells Alex he is hiding from Lloyd because he thinks Lloyd might be attracted to him.
Alex jokes that George should go for it, but then realizes George is not gay.
George is shocked as Alex walks away.
Izzie and Cristina arrive at another desk.
George asks Cristina if she or Meredith think he is gay.
Cristina asks George if he is gay, and when he says no, she is surprised.
A woman approaches Izzie and Cristina.
Izzie gives her a hotel key card and asks her to give it to the police.
After the woman leaves, George asks Izzie and Cristina if they really have a possible organ donor.
He asks about the blood type and compares it with his chart.
Izzie goes to her John Doe patient.
She talks to him, saying she knows he probably cannot hear her.
She tells him she feels he has a family and asks him to try to get better and live.
Suddenly, an alarm sounds.
The patient starts to crash and his pulse drops.
Meredith runs in.
They decide to get dopamine and blood for a transfusion.
George examines Mackie.
Mackie flirts with George.
Meanwhile, Izzie and Meredith go up some stairs.
Cristina meets them and is excited about the possibility of their patient becoming an organ donor.
Izzie insists the patient should get surgery to survive.
Cristina tells Meredith they need to go to someone higher than Bailey for their plan.
Meredith and Cristina go to the men's bathroom and see Burke.
They ask Burke to repair John Doe's heart.
Burke comments that they like to cross the line and tells them to either expose themselves or leave.
Meredith asks Derek for advice.
Derek hesitantly tells her to go over Burke's head and talk to the Chief.
Izzie, Meredith, and Cristina ask George if he wants to join a transplant surgery.
Webber asks George about Mackie's condition.
George tells Webber they might have a liver for Mackie.
The Chief listens carefully.
Alex notices the others watching George and Webber.
Burke walks by, and Webber stops him to tell him about the surgery.
Burke looks at the other interns.
The interns quickly leave.
Alex stays behind.
When Burke starts to leave, Alex follows him.
During the open heart surgery, Alex helps Burke.
The other interns watch from the gallery and glare at Alex.
Izzie is happy because their patient is getting the surgery.
A nurse comes in and tells Izzie that their John Doe patient has been identified.
The nurse says his wife is coming.
Derek brings the wife, Shelley Davidson, to Izzie.
Derek leaves and tells them to page him if they need help.
Izzie explains to Shelley that her husband might wake up, but if he does not improve by morning, they want to know if she has thought about organ donation for Kevin.
Webber gently shakes Mackie's shoulder.
He tells Mackie that George found him a liver.
Mackie looks at Webber and then at George.
Mackie starts to cry and looks away.
Webber pats his shoulder.
George leaves the room.
Alex rushes into the locker room and finds Meredith.
He tells her he smells like open-heart surgery and nuzzles her hair.
Meredith turns around, grabs him, and pushes him against the lockers by his shirt.
She tells him to stay away from her and says he smells bad.
Meredith turns and sees Derek.
She goes back to her locker.
She then tries to attack Alex again, but Derek tells Alex to leave.
Derek pushes Alex out and closes the door.
Alex makes a face at Meredith.
Meredith closes her locker and gets ready to leave.
Derek opens the door for her.
She looks at him for a few seconds, then walks away.
Meredith goes home.
Izzie and George are watching video tapes.
Meredith is angry and asks why they touched her mother's surgical tapes.
She storms upstairs.
Izzie and George look at each other and laugh.
Outside the hospital, Meredith talks to Cristina.
Meredith complains about her roommates being too cheerful and helpful.
Cristina suggests that Meredith should kick them out, but Meredith says she cannot do that.
Alex joins them as they enter the hospital.
He complains about being assigned to the pit again and says Cristina gets the harvest surgery.
Meredith and Cristina are annoyed with Alex and joke about becoming lesbians.
The elevator arrives, but they choose to take the stairs.
Cristina talks to Kevin's wife and daughter.
She goes over the organ donation form with Shelley.
When Shelley starts to cry, Cristina leaves the room and tells Bailey that she is not good with people and finds it too hard.
Bailey tells Cristina that it is not supposed to be easy and reminds her that the patient is a person, not just someone to take organs from.
Cristina remembers this and goes back to talk to Shelley again.
George examines Mackie.
Mackie starts to flirt with George again.
George awkwardly tries to tell Mackie that he is not gay.
Mackie smiles and says he never thought George was gay.
He also says he is not gay himself.
Mackie tells George that dying gives him freedom to act boldly, because no one can criticize him anymore.
Mackie asks George if there was ever someone he liked but could not have.
After some time, George admits that he was attracted to Meredith.
During the organ harvest preparation, Burke talks about how he dislikes harvesting organs.
He says he prefers saving lives, but harvesting ends one.
Izzie quietly tells Kevin that he did his best.
She says goodbye to him.
Meredith and Alex are working in Trauma.
Meredith notices Viper sitting in a chair.
She asks Alex why Viper is there and how long he has been waiting.
Alex says he does not know because he was busy with other patients.
Viper starts coughing.
Meredith walks towards him, worried.
Viper tries to stand up, but he collapses and blood comes out of his mouth.
Meredith lifts his shirt and sees that his stitches have opened.
The area around the wound is swollen, about the size of a small melon.
Meredith puts Viper on a gurney.
She climbs on top of him and tries to hold his wound closed.
She tells a nurse to inform the OR that she is coming and to page Bailey.
They arrive at the OR and go inside.
Bailey tells Meredith to scrub in.
She tells Alex to go back downstairs as punishment for only focusing on the interesting cases.
Mackie is on the OR table, ready for anesthesia.
The Chief tells him to count backwards.
Mackie counts and quickly falls asleep.
Izzie and Cristina scrub in for surgery.
Webber and Burke enter the room.
Webber says he will be next door when they are ready.
The team begins the operation.
They place the organs in plastic bags and sealed containers.
The liver is put on ice.
George takes the liver and gives it to Webber, who places it in Mackie.
Back at the harvest, an alarm starts beeping as the heart is removed.
The team prepares to leave, but Izzie stays behind.
Cristina looks back at her.
Izzie says she wants to sew up the body for the family.
Cristina returns to help her.
Later, Cristina and Izzie meet Shelley and tell her that he is ready.
Cristina looks thoughtful at Viper's friends, who are waiting.
Bailey and Meredith come out to see them.
The friends ask if Viper is okay.
Bailey begins shouting, asking if he is okay.
He is not okay.
He threw himself down a concrete hill at high speed for no real reason.
Bailey is upset because people act recklessly with their bodies.
She mentions that some people want to harm themselves by speeding down the hill.
She is also worried about others who use the hill, like walkers and drivers.
She says that today, someone got seriously hurt because of this reckless behavior.
Meredith interrupts Bailey, so Bailey calms down and says again that the injured person is not fine.
Bailey then leaves the room angrily.
After Bailey leaves, Meredith tells the group that Bailey is just tired.
She also says that Viper, the injured person, will survive.
Later, Meredith is in the locker room packing her things.
Derek enters, closes the door, and talks to her.
He tells Meredith that he is interested in her because of her hair, not because of a game or a chase.
Meredith looks surprised, so Derek explains that her hair smells good.
He also says he likes her bossy attitude.
Meredith tells Derek she still will not go out with him.
Derek leaves and says she will change her mind.
Meanwhile, George tells Mackie that his surgery went well.
Mackie sighs and says he needs to stop smoking.
He smiles and holds George’s hand.
Meredith goes home and opens her front door.
Izzie, Cristina, and George are inside.
They are eating pizza, drinking beer, and watching a surgical video.
When Meredith enters, everyone looks at her.
George quickly says that Cristina made them watch the tapes.
Cristina looks annoyed at George.
Meredith asks what they are watching, sits down, and takes some popcorn.
They all watch the video for a few seconds.
Suddenly, everyone jumps back, screaming and laughing in shock at what they see on the tape.