George and Izzie see Derek sneaking out of the house.
They realize he is the stranger who has been with Meredith.
George feels jealous.
Izzie is upset for different reasons.
She wonders why Meredith is getting so many good surgeries lately.
A flu is spreading in the hospital.
Cristina feels nauseous and blames Dr. Burke for it.
In the lobby, Alex notices a gunshot wound victim.
He asks why the victim is not in the emergency room.
The answer is that the victim has an appointment.
This was a scheduled gunshot wound.
His friend shot him, but he had given permission.
The victim says the scars will look good with his tattoos.
Meredith helps Bailey with a case involving a teenager.
The teenager went to Mexico for a gastric bypass surgery without her parents' permission.
Now, they need to fix the damage caused by the surgery.
Izzie assists a man who swallowed his girlfriend's keys right before she broke up with him.
George is initially excited to participate in a major surgery of the day.
He works with Derek on a case involving a toddler with severe tremors.
After reviewing brain scans taken a few months apart, Derek discovers that the toddler's brain tissue is dying too quickly.
He decides that a hemispherectomy, which means removing half of the brain, is necessary.
This procedure allows the remaining brain tissue to adapt and learn.
George finds the surgery impressive, especially since it is performed by Derek, who seems capable of anything, including Meredith.
However, George is also concerned.
He thinks he smelled bourbon on Dr. Taylor's breath, the anesthesiologist for the surgery.
Dr. Taylor is senior to George and has a strong reputation.
George is unsure if he should report his concerns.
Alex and the tattooed gunshot victim connect because they both wrestled in college in Iowa.
They believe that pain can be beneficial.
Burke, who has treated this patient before, struggles to hide his disdain for self-harm.
He prefers safer activities, like playing the trumpet.
George talks to Dr. Taylor just before the hemispherectomy.
Dr. Taylor feels insulted by George's suggestion, which implies he is unfit to give anesthesia.
Derek, though hesitant, supports Dr. Taylor.
As a result, George is removed from the surgery and Cristina takes his place.
Meredith learns that her patient has deeper issues than just wanting to be very thin.
The patient feels immense pressure to meet her mother's high standards for perfection.
Meredith tells her that life should not be this difficult.
The procedure to reverse the gastric bypass does not go well.
There are complications, including the patient's bowel bursting on Meredith.
The girl will have to struggle with nutrition for the rest of her life.
Alex's patient, who has tattoos, begins to deteriorate.
The stress from his gunshot wound worsens an existing infection in his tattoo.
They cannot treat the infection because it has spread too much, and the patient dies.
During the hemispherectomy, a little girl starts to wake up while Derek is removing half of her brain.
Her anesthesia is too light, and Dr. Taylor is asleep.
Derek kicks Dr. Taylor out of the surgery.
Later, he apologizes to George and admits his feelings for Meredith.
Izzie has been giving Meredith a hard time all day.
She finally confronts Meredith about her relationship with an attending.
Izzie's anger fades when she realizes that Meredith is in love with Derek.
Izzie is feeling less upset now.
She even feels a bit sorry for Meredith.
Cristina suspects her flu-like symptoms might be something else.
She decides to take two pregnancy tests.
She is unhappy with the results.