Izzie, Meredith, and George are getting ready for work in their shared house.
Izzie walks around in her underwear.
George feels very uncomfortable and complains about Izzie's lack of personal boundaries.
He continues to complain as they head to the hospital.
Meredith and Izzie do not take his complaints seriously and laugh at him.
At the hospital, Derek flirts with Meredith and asks her to have breakfast with him.
Meredith feels annoyed by Derek's behavior.
A well-known scrub nurse at Seattle Grace, Elizabeth "Liz" Fallon, is admitted as a patient.
Her arrival causes excitement among the staff.
Cristina is working with Burke and is assigned to care for Liz.
Liz teases Cristina, suggesting she took Liz's chart just to impress Burke.
Izzie has a patient named Mr. Humphrey who has prostate cancer.
Mr. Humphrey refuses to let Izzie near him for his biopsy.
Bailey scolds Izzie for this problem.
George finds Izzie and Meredith to complain again about Izzie's behavior that morning.
Alex and Meredith are called to help Derek with a trauma case.
Derek's patient, Jorge Cruz, fell down the stairs while holding a nail gun.
Sixteen nails are stuck in Jorge's head.
Jorge's condition is getting worse.
It is revealed that Liz used to be Ellis Grey's scrub nurse.
Liz learns from Richard that Meredith is working at Seattle Grace.
Izzie tries to see Mr. Humphrey again, but he insists that she leave.
Izzie realizes that Mr. Humphrey saw a modeling photoshoot she did last year, which was just published.
Jorge's wife, Zona, must decide whether to allow a risky surgery to remove the nails from Jorge's head.
The surgery could be fatal.
George helps by researching nail gun injuries.
He finds out there have been twenty-three similar cases, and one was a suicide.
Mr. Humphrey's surgeon is Dr. Harry Victor, who is known for his aggressive surgical style and is called "Limp Harry."
Dr. Victor plans to remove the entire prostate, including the nerves.
This would mean Mr. Humphrey would lose the ability to have erections.
George continues to complain about the morning incident.
Izzie tells him to buy her tampons during his grocery shopping.
Meredith visits her mother, Ellis.
Meredith is upset because Ellis remembers Liz, her old scrub nurse, but does not remember her own daughter.
Izzie and Meredith are angry when they find out George did not buy the tampons.
George argues that men do not buy tampons.
Cristina goes back to check Liz's vital signs.
Liz asks Cristina if she has anyone waiting for her at home, such as a loved one or a pet.
Izzie enters the locker room and is shocked to see her modeling photos taped everywhere.
Alex printed out large glossy photos from her photoshoots and put them all over the locker room and doors.
Izzie confronts Alex and tells him he can keep calling her "Dr. Model," but she graduated from medical school without debt, unlike him and most of their classmates.
Izzie returns to Mr. Humphrey and accuses him of being chauvinistic.
Mr. Humphrey explains that he is not chauvinistic.
He says he has been fantasizing about Izzie since seeing her photo and did not want her to see him in a vulnerable state.
Cristina confronts Burke about sending her to do unnecessary tests on Liz.
He tells her that she is terminally ill and was admitted to Seattle Grace Hospital because she wanted to die there.
Meredith spends time with Liz, and they talk about Ellis.
Later that evening, Liz's heart stops, and she dies because she had signed a Do Not Resuscitate order.
Meredith finds out that Jorge and Zona want to proceed with surgery.
Meredith tries to convince Zona not to do the surgery and asks if five good years are better than ten bad ones.
Zona says she would prefer to have more time with her husband, even if it means taking care of him.
Derek takes Meredith aside and reminds her that the decision belongs to Jorge and Zona.
Izzie supports Mr. Humphrey and asks Dr. Victor not to cut his nerves.
Bailey supports Izzie’s request.