derek_shepherd goes back to Meredith Grey's bedroom to finish getting ready. Meredith Grey watches derek_shepherd. In the kitchen, Izzie Stevens is with George O'Malley. Izzie Stevens is upset that her cupcakes don't taste right. George O'Malley disagrees and thinks Martha Stewart would be proud of Izzie Stevens's cupcakes. Izzie Stevens believes Izzie Stevens is missing one specific ingredient. George O'Malley suggests Izzie Stevens call Izzie Stevens's mother for help, but Izzie Stevens refuses. Meredith Grey watches derek_shepherd brush his teeth in the bathroom. Meredith Grey suggests they sleep at derek_shepherd's place tonight. Meredith Grey wonders why they always sleep at Meredith Grey's place and questions if derek_shepherd even has one. derek_shepherd does not respond and goes downstairs to the kitchen. In the kitchen, derek_shepherd greets George O'Malley, who offers derek_shepherd one of Izzie Stevens's cupcakes for breakfast. derek_shepherd says he likes it at Meredith Grey's. derek_shepherd explains that Meredith Grey prefers having her things there and sleeping in her own bed. Meanwhile, derek_shepherd gathers a bowl and cereal. George O'Malley questions if derek_shepherd is a health nut because derek_shepherd eats muesli every morning. derek_shepherd disagrees with this idea. Izzie Stevens insists that George O'Malley has been a health nut for at least the last week.
derek_shepherd then realizes derek_shepherd has been at Meredith Grey's place all week. Cristina Yang is in a doctor's office. When someone enters, Cristina Yang mentions Cristina Yang is starting an ENT rotation on the 9th. Cristina Yang needs to complete Cristina Yang's current task before that, but there are no openings until the 16th. The person informs Cristina Yang about other options besides termination and tries to discuss them. Cristina Yang interrupts and asks to be scheduled for the 16th. Cristina Yang says Cristina Yang will confirm after adjusting Cristina Yang's schedule. The person attempts to talk about options again, but Cristina Yang cuts the person off, stating Cristina Yang is not interested in discussing it. Alex Karev is examining Devo Friedman, a patient who had a root canal that has been bleeding. Preston Burke enters and asks for the bullet. Alex Karev explains that Devo Friedman is a 17-year-old girl in the hospital for heavy bleeding after a root canal. Devo Friedman also has a new heart murmur and a fever, but Devo Friedman is not feverish while on antibiotics. Devo Friedman asks if Devo Friedman is going to die and wants to call Devo Friedman's parents in the cafeteria. Preston Burke reassures Devo Friedman that Devo Friedman is not dying. Preston Burke tells Devo Friedman that Alex Karev will run some tests and Preston Burke will return with Devo Friedman's parents later. After Preston Burke leaves, Alex Karev wonders about Devo Friedman's name. Devo Friedman mentions an 80s rock band and jokes that Devo Friedman's parents used drugs. Devo Friedman tells Alex Karev Devo Friedman prefers to be called Esther.
When Alex Karev pulls back Devo Friedman's blanket, Alex Karev sees Devo Friedman is wearing a long denim skirt under Devo Friedman's hospital gown.
Alex Karev playfully asks Devo Friedman if Devo Friedman is Amish.
Devo Friedman responds by asking Alex Karev if Alex Karev has ever seen an Orthodox Jew.
Meanwhile, Cristina Yang is looking at scans.
Cristina Yang believes the patient should be in psychiatry and questions why the hospital is sending the patient to surgery.
The psychiatric resident explains that the patient had a seizure two days ago and another one this morning.
Meredith Grey reads the patient's chart and is confused by the patient's claims.
The patient insists he can communicate with dead people.
The patient's family believes the patient is dangerous and had the patient committed, stating it is a psychiatric issue, not a neurological one.
Cristina Yang questions the resident's medical education, which offends the resident.
The resident responds that the resident learned not to make quick judgments, unlike Cristina Yang.
The resident sarcastically apologizes and mentions that the psychiatric department won't take the patient back until the patient is cleared.
The resident explains that the patient thinks the patient's seizures are actually visions.
The patient argues that the patient is psychic, not having seizures.
Meredith Grey and Cristina Yang enter the room and greet Mr. Duff.
Meredith Grey and Cristina Yang inform Mr. Duff that they will begin a workup, but Mr. Duff thinks it is pointless.
While Meredith Grey examines Mr. Duff's eyes, Cristina Yang tests Mr. Duff's grip.
During this, Mr. Duff has another seizure.
After the seizure stops, Mr. Duff warns Meredith Grey and Cristina Yang that someone will check out soon. Cristina Yang remains skeptical and believes Mr. Duff is unstable. Mr. Duff claims he feels dizzy and insists that someone on the 4th floor is going to die. At that moment, a code blue is announced for the 4th floor. Cristina Yang feels nauseous as she approaches the nurse's station. Cristina Yang joins George O'Malley, who is preoccupied with thoughts about a psychic's prediction regarding a deceased man on the 4th floor. Cristina Yang asks George O'Malley if he can cover for her on the 16th. George O'Malley is distracted by derek_shepherd and Meredith Grey walking toward them. George O'Malley mentions he is considering growing his hair out and not shaving for a stubbly look. Cristina Yang reminds George O'Malley that she needs him to cover the 16th. George O'Malley agrees but asks why Cristina Yang needs him. Cristina Yang tells George O'Malley it is not his concern and walks away. derek_shepherd and Meredith Grey walk down the corridor. derek_shepherd and Meredith Grey discuss how Meredith Grey feels she doesn't know much about derek_shepherd. derek_shepherd tells Meredith Grey she knows basic things, like he is from New York and likes ferry boats. Meredith Grey asks derek_shepherd about his friends. derek_shepherd replies that as a surgeon, he doesn't have friends. Meredith Grey presses derek_shepherd about who he spends time with and what he does on his days off, calling these important questions.
Mr. Duff wonders who the information is important to. Meredith Grey mentions that she and derek_shepherd have sex every night and feels she deserves more details. derek_shepherd replies that Meredith Grey knows more than most people. Meredith Grey finds this strange and decides to withhold sex until she knows derek_shepherd better. derek_shepherd suggests that Meredith Grey should be more flexible. Meredith Grey insists she isn't flexible, but derek_shepherd smiles slyly and is called away. Meredith Grey and derek_shepherd share a moment of eye contact. derek_shepherd says they will learn about each other, calling it the fun part of a relationship, like gravy, as he leaves. Meredith Grey shouts that she doesn't want to be derek_shepherd's gravy. Preston Burke and Alex Karev are in the lobby discussing Devo Friedman and Esther's treatment with Esther's parents. Esther needs a valve replacement due to Von Willebrand's disease. Preston Burke and Alex Karev explain that Esther cannot take blood thinners needed for a mechanical heart valve. They recommend a porcine valve instead. Esther's father realizes that this means a pig valve. Preston Burke explains that it is the standard care for someone like Esther. Esther's mother insists she just wants them to save Esther's life. Miranda Bailey and Izzie Stevens are in surgery to remove a lump. Mrs. Glass is awake and asks about the psychic in the hospital.
Miranda Bailey and Izzie Stevens do not believe the psychic is real.
Izzie Stevens mentions that the ICU is on the fourth floor and that people die there often.
Miranda Bailey is almost done with the procedure and explains what will happen next.
Izzie Stevens remains focused on the psychic, claiming he is a fake and that Izzie Stevens can see further into the future than the psychic can.
Miranda Bailey wonders why Izzie Stevens is so bothered by the psychic, but Izzie Stevens denies it.
Meanwhile, derek_shepherd is testing nerve response on Mr. Walker's leg.
Mr. Walker cannot feel anything until derek_shepherd reaches Mr. Walker's thigh.
derek_shepherd asks Mr. Walker to try wiggling Mr. Walker's toes, but Mr. Walker cannot.
Mr. Walker mentions that Mr. Walker was able to wiggle them about ten minutes earlier while derek_shepherd reviews the X-rays.
derek_shepherd notes that the spine appears clear and asks how the injury happened.
Mr. Walker explains that Mr. Walker was rock climbing in Snohomish.
Mr. Walker states it was a small drop, and Mr. Walker had a belay.
Mr. Walker mentions that Mr. Walker's family is on the way.
derek_shepherd tests Mr. Walker's leg strength.
Mr. Walker asks if Mr. Walker should be worried.
derek_shepherd tells Mr. Walker to relax and calls for a nurse to arrange an MRI.
derek_shepherd also asks Meredith Grey to accompany Mr. Walker.
Meanwhile, George O'Malley is trying to intubate a patient.
Alex Karev tries to assist George O'Malley but makes George O'Malley more anxious. George O'Malley makes a mistake and puts the ventilator into the esophagus. Dr. Preston Burke arrives and successfully inserts the ventilator on his first attempt. Cristina Yang is in Mr. Duff’s room, where Mr. Duff flirts with Cristina Yang. Cristina Yang reviews the test results and informs Mr. Duff that he has epilepsy. Cristina Yang requests an MRI. Meanwhile, Mr. Duff realizes that Cristina Yang is pregnant, almost as if he had a vision. Cristina Yang asks Miranda Bailey to stop having Mr. Duff as her patient. Miranda Bailey agrees but wants Cristina Yang to handle Cristina Yang's post-operative paperwork for the next month. Miranda Bailey then assigns Cristina Yang a case involving a pregnant patient with breast cancer. derek_shepherd and Meredith Grey examine the X-rays of a paralyzed patient. Meredith Grey starts asking derek_shepherd personal questions because Meredith Grey feels she doesn't know much about derek_shepherd. Cristina Yang speaks with the patient, Zoey Glass, who wants to postpone chemotherapy until after Zoey Glass's pregnancy. Cristina Yang explains that this is not possible because pregnancy hormones can worsen the cancer. Cristina Yang tells Zoey Glass that none of the treatments will allow the baby to survive. The doctors ask Zoey Glass to choose between undergoing treatment, which would result in an abortion, or refusing treatment and facing death later. derek_shepherd and Meredith Grey speak with Mr. Walker and Mr. Walker's wife. Meredith Grey asks if Mr. Walker has been stressed lately.
Cristina Yang then tells derek_shepherd that mental trauma can show up in physical ways.
Mr. Duff arrives and tells Mr. Walker that Mr. Duff believes Mr. Walker.
Mr. Duff insists that it is not just a psychosomatic issue.
derek_shepherd reassures Mr. Walker that Mr. Walker is not crazy.
Devo Friedman argues with Devo Friedman's parents about not wanting a pig valve because pigs are non-kosher.
Dr. Preston Burke warns Devo Friedman that Devo Friedman could die without the surgery.
Devo Friedman asks Alex Karev to help Devo Friedman find another option.
Izzie Stevens performs an MRI on Mr. Duff while Mr. Duff flirts with Izzie Stevens.
The residents chat about hospital food.
Cristina Yang points out Nurse Harper and encourages George O'Malley to approach her.
George O'Malley tells Izzie Stevens to call Izzie Stevens's mother for her birthday.
Cristina Yang is with Zoey Glass, who shares that Zoey Glass got pregnant at an older age after trying for a long time.
Zoey Glass now faces a tough decision.
Cristina Yang interrupts and reassures Zoey Glass that Zoey Glass has a good chance of surviving.
Cristina Yang warns that if Zoey Glass stops treatment, Zoey Glass won't see Zoey Glass's child grow up.
Mr. Walker informs derek_shepherd that Mr. Walker cannot move Mr. Walker's hands.
derek_shepherd quickly prepares an operating room, suspecting a clot in the spine.
Meredith Grey worries that derek_shepherd might be mistaken and that the surgery could be unnecessary.
derek_shepherd decides to trust his instincts.
Alex Karev performs an ultrasound on Devo Friedman and notices Devo Friedman's condition is getting worse.
Alex Karev and Devo Friedman's relationship grows closer, and they discuss faith.
Izzie Stevens finds Miranda Bailey to show Miranda Bailey Mr. Duff's brain CT scan.
Miranda Bailey and Izzie Stevens see an arteriovenous malformation in the left lobe.
Izzie Stevens wants to prepare the operating room.
Miranda Bailey stops Izzie Stevens and says Izzie Stevens needs authorization from the surgeon first.
Miranda Bailey thinks Izzie Stevens is too emotionally involved with the patients.
Izzie Stevens disagrees.
derek_shepherd and Meredith Grey are operating on Mr. Walker.
Meredith Grey is unsure about the surgery and questions the ethics of doing it without full knowledge.
Miranda Bailey and Cristina Yang enter Zoey Glass Glass’s room.
Zoey Glass has decided to have an abortion.
As Miranda Bailey and Cristina Yang leave, Miranda Bailey asks Cristina Yang if Cristina Yang has ever done a dilation and curettage.
Cristina Yang will have to perform the procedure.
Alex Karev and George O'Malley are in the office.
George O'Malley asks Alex Karev how Alex Karev attracts so many women.
Alex Karev makes a joke about it.
Alex Karev learns that a bovine valve can be transplanted into patients.
Alex Karev tells George O'Malley that Alex Karev thinks too much and does not act enough.
Alex Karev goes into Devo’s room, where Devo’s parents are present.
Alex Karev tells Devo’s parents that he found an alternative transplant option.
Alex Karev explains that Dr. Preston Burke can use a bovine valve instead of a pig valve.
Dr. Preston Burke arrives and hears the discussion.
Alex Karev tells Dr. Preston Burke that the bovine valve is better than the pig valve, challenging Dr. Preston Burke in front of Devo’s family.
In the hospital corridor, Dr. Preston Burke takes Alex Karev off his duties for not consulting Dr. Preston Burke first.
Izzie Stevens goes into Mr. Duff’s room.
Izzie Stevens asks Mr. Duff to sign papers for Mr. Duff’s surgery.
Izzie Stevens explains that Mr. Duff needs the surgery to stop the malformation from rupturing.
Izzie Stevens mentions that Mr. Duff’s visions are due to this condition.
Mr. Duff calls Izzie Stevens "Cricket," which surprises Izzie Stevens.
Cristina Yang enters Zoey Glass Glass’s room to prepare Zoey Glass for the curettage.
Zoey Glass and Zoey Glass Glass’s husband have decided not to abort.
Cristina Yang tries to persuade Zoey Glass otherwise.
Zoey Glass asks if Cristina Yang can guarantee Zoey Glass Glass’s survival after the treatment.
Cristina Yang admits she cannot guarantee it.
Zoey Glass shares that Zoey Glass's mother died of cancer, so Zoey Glass wants to keep the baby. Cristina Yang suggests getting a psychiatric intervention, but Zoey Glass declines. Later, Cristina Yang is alone and deep in thought in the dormitory. Preston Burke, who has been avoiding Cristina Yang, joins Cristina Yang. Preston Burke tells Cristina Yang that Preston Burke doesn’t know how to perform the bovine transplant. Cristina Yang tells Preston Burke that Preston Burke's problem can be solved. Meredith Grey and derek_shepherd are in the operating room with Mr. Walker. Meredith Grey and derek_shepherd need to find a clot quickly because there is damage to Mr. Walker's sympathetic nervous system. George O'Malley walks down the corridor when Nurse Harper asks for George O'Malley's help to intubate a patient. Preston Burke sees George O'Malley performing the procedure and watches George O'Malley closely. The procedure goes well, and Nurse Harper praises George O'Malley. Preston Burke meets Alex Karev on the stairs and asks Alex Karev how long it will take to get a bovine valve. Alex Karev is pleased that Preston Burke trusted Alex Karev's instincts. Preston Burke also asks Alex Karev to find a rabbi for a blessing for Devo Friedman. Meanwhile, derek_shepherd and Meredith Grey locate the clot in Mr. Walker's back. After the surgery, derek_shepherd and Meredith Grey talk. derek_shepherd tells Meredith Grey he sees their relationship as real. Meredith Grey asks derek_shepherd to prove it.
Cristina Yang brings discharge documents to Zoey Glass.
Zoey Glass tells Cristina Yang that Cristina Yang misjudged her.
Zoey Glass explains that Zoey Glass spoke with Zoey Glass Glass’s husband, and they agreed it’s okay because the baby will live with the father.
Cristina Yang struggles to understand Zoey Glass.
Izzie Stevens enters Mr. Duff’s room.
Izzie Stevens asks Mr. Duff to sign the forms again.
Mr. Duff is worried about his visions.
Mr. Duff feels the visions are part of him and fears they will go away after the surgery.
Devo Friedman is on the operating table and is sedated.
A doctor experienced in bovine valve transplants assists with the operation through a video call on a television.
Preston Burke puts on his gown.
The residents are in a corridor discussing their day.
The residents joke about Meredith Grey not allowing derek_shepherd to perform a surgery, which would have resulted in a patient's death.
George O'Malley arrives and shares his experience with a nurse.
Alex Karev gives George O'Malley a condom.
Izzie Stevens mentions that the psychic will have surgery.
Izzie Stevens believes the psychic trusts his visions because he revealed details about her past that he shouldn't know.
Meredith Grey meets Mr. Walker, the patient.
Mr. Duff thanks Izzie Stevens and shows Mr. Duff can move Mr. Duff's hand.
After the surgery, Mr. Duff tells Izzie Stevens that a figure Izzie Stevens saw is still present.
Mr. Duff also mentions that a spoonful of coconut extract is needed for Izzie Stevens Stevens' recipe, indicating Mr. Duff still has Mr. Duff's visions.
Izzie Stevens is at home eating a chocolate muffin.
Izzie Stevens finally decides to call Izzie Stevens Stevens' mom.
derek_shepherd takes Meredith Grey to derek_shepherd's trailer and shares a lot of personal information about derek_shepherd.